AV Evasion: Practical Example
Now that we have a general understanding
of the detection techniques used in
antivirus software and the relative
bypass methods,
we can turn our focus to a practical
example.
Finding a universal solution to bypass
all antivirus products is difficult
and time consuming, if not impossible.
Considering time limitations during a
typical penetration test,
it is far more efficient to target the
specific antivirus product
deployed in the client network.
For the purposes of this module, we will
install Avira Free Antivirus
Version 15.0.34.23 on our Windows 10
client.
The Avira installer can be found in the
Tools, antivirus evasion directory.
We’ll launch it...
...and step through the installation
process.
Once installed, we can check the
configuration by searching for
Start Avira Antivirus in the
Windows 10 search bar.
Launching this application will display
the Avira Control Center
where we can enable the Real-Time
Protection feature.
As a first step, we should verify that
the antivirus product is working
as intended.
We will use the Meterpreter payload we
generated earlier and attempt to
execute it.
In this case we are presented with an
error message indicating that the system
cannot execute our file.
Immediately afterwards, Avira displays
a popup notification informing us that
the file was flagged as malicious and was
quarantined.
Let's see if we can get this file past
Avira.
PowerShell In-Memory Injection
Depending on our target environment and
how restricted it is,
we might be able to bypass antivirus
products with the help of PowerShell.
A very powerful feature of PowerShell
is its ability to interact with
the Windows API.
This allows us to implement the in-memory
injection process in a PowerShell script.
One of the main benefits of executing a
script rather than a PE
is the fact that it is difficult for
antivirus manufacturers
to determine if the script is malicious
or not as it's run inside an interpreter
and the script itself isn’t executable
code.
Furthermore, even if the script is marked
as malicious, it can easily be altered.
Antivirus software will often look at
variable names, comments, and logic,
all of which can be changed in a script
without the need to re-compile anything.
This is a basic template script that
performs in-memory injection.
The script starts by importing
VirtualAlloc...
...and CreateThread...
...from kernel32.dll...
...as well as memset...
...from msvcrt.dll.
These functions will allow us to allocate
memory, create an execution thread,
and write arbitrary data to the allocated
memory, respectively.
The script then allocates a block of
memory using VirtualAlloc,
takes each byte of the payload stored in
the $sc byte array,
and writes it to our newly allocated
memory block using memset.
As a final step, our in-memory written
payload is executed in a separate thread
using CreateThread.
Missing from our script is the payload,
which we can generate with msfvenom.
For consistency, we will use the payload
from the previous example.
We’ll rename the buf variable from
msfvenom to sc,
as required by the script, and copy the
resulting output into the final script.
With our shellcode included, our script
is complete.
We’ll check our script in VirusTotal.
According to the results of the
VirusTotal scan,
only 6 AV products detected our script.
This is quite promising.
Next, let’s scan the file with Avira.
First we transfer our Powershell script
to our Windows client with Netcat.
Nice. Our Powershell script didn’t
trigger any warnings.
Unfortunately, when we attempt to run
our malicious script,
we are presented with an error that
references the Execution Policies
of our system,
which appear to prevent our script from
running.
This is because PowerShell execution
policies are set on a per-user
rather than per-system basis.
Let’s attempt to view and change the
policy for our current user.
Please note that in this instance we have
chosen to change the policy
than bypass it on a per-script basis,
which can be achieved by using the
Execution Policy Bypass flag
for each script when it is run.
We have successfully changed the policy
for our current user to Unrestricted.
Before executing our script, we will
start a meterpreter handler
on our Kali attacker machine to interact
with our shell.
This Metasploit command uses the -x
option to setup the payload handler,
remote host, listening host, and payload
type all in one line.
Now we will try to launch the PowerShell
script.
The script executes without any problems,
and we receive a Meterpreter shell on our
attack machine.
Excellent.
We have effectively evaded Avira detection
on our target.
Note that mature organizations often
implement various machine learning
software in order to analyse the contents
of scripts that are run.
Depending on the configuration of these
systems and what they consider to be
harmful, scripts like the one used in
this example may need to be altered or
adapted for the target environment.
Shellter
Shellter is a dynamic shellcode injection
tool and one of the most popular free
tools capable of bypassing antivirus
software.
It uses a number of novel and advanced
techniques to essentially backdoor a
valid and non-malicious executable file
with a malicious shellcode payload.
While the details of many of these
techniques are beyond the scope
of this module, Shellter essentially
performs a thorough analysis of the
target PE file and the execution flows.
It then determines where it can inject
our shellcode,
without relying on traditional injection
techniques
that are easily caught by AV engines.
Those include changing of PE file section
permissions,
creating new sections and so on.
Finally, Shellter attempts to use the
existing PE Import Address Table entries
to locate functions that will be used for
the memory allocation,
transfer, and the execution of our
payload.
Let’s attempt to bypass our current
antivirus software using Shellter.
First, we’ll install Shellter in Kali
using apt.
When executed,
shellter presents a terminal with a new
console running under wine.
Shellter can run in either Auto or Manual
mode.
In Manual mode, it will launch the PE we
want to use for injection
and allow us to manipulate it on a more
granular level.
We can use this mode to highly customize
the injection process
in case the automatically selected
options fail.
For the purposes of this example however,
we’ll run Shellter in Auto mode by
selecting ‘A’ at the prompt.
Next, we need to select a target PE.
Shellter will analyze and alter the
execution flow
to inject and execute our payload.
For this example, we will use the 32-bit
trial executable installer
for the popular WinRAR utility as our
target PE,
which we will obatain from the Rarlab
downloads page.
We’ll copy the installer to our home
directory.-
Before analyzing and altering the
original PE in any way,
shellter first creates a backup of the
file.
As soon as Shellter finds a suitable
place to inject our payload,
it will ask us if we want to enable
Stealth Mode,
which will attempt to restore the execution
flow of the PE
after our payload has been executed.
We’ll enable this, allowing the WinRar
installer to complete normally
which could reduce user suspicion.
At this point we are presented with the list of available payloads.
These include popular selections such as
meterpreter,
but Shellter also supports custom
payloads.
Note that in order to restore the
execution flow through the Stealth Mode
option, custom payloads need to terminate
by exiting the current thread.
Since Avira detected our previously
generated Meterpreter PE,
we will use the same payload settings here
to test Shellter’s bypass capabilities.
We will choose to use a listed payload.
And we will select the Meterpreter
Reverse TCP payload.
After selecting the payload,
we are presented with the default options
from Metasploit,
such as the reverse shell host,
and port.
With all parameters set,
Shellter will inject the payload into the
WinRAR installer
and attempt to reach the first
instruction of the payload.
The injection is verified, and we are
ready to test the malicious PE.
We’ll configure a listener on our Kali
machine
to interact with the meterpreter payload,
And transfer our PE with Netcat.
Next, we will manually scan the PE with
Avira.
Since Shellter obfuscates both the payload
as well as the payload decoder
before injecting them into the PE,
Avira’s signature-based scan runs cleanly.
Once we execute the file, we are
presented with the default WinRAR
installation window, and we can complete
the installation without incident.
Our handler session reveals a valid
Meterpreter session
but the session appears to die after the
installation completes.
This makes sense because the installer
execution has completed
and the process has been terminated.
In order to overcome this problem,
we can set up an AutoRunScript to migrate
our Meterpreter
to a separate process immediately after
session creation.
Let’s re-run the WinRAR setup.
After the migration completes, the
session will remain active
even after the WinRAR
installation process completes.
Our payload will even run if the WinRar
installation is cancelled.